And I said, "Dennis, it's a bubble. How
does it feel to be in a bubble?" Grabbed
my hand and said, "Martin, it feels
better than being outside the bubble."
And I was like, "He's absolutely right.
I have to go into this bubble. I'm in
the wrong side of the table."
>> So, I met Martine through Alex Bearing
at 3G. I try to ask everybody that I
interview, "Who should I do next?" Alex
said, "Martin." I asked why. He said
he's just the most lovable investor that
he's come across.
>> Sometimes we're accused of being
dolphins in a sea of sharks. And I love
to be a dolphin. Who wants to be a
shark? Dolphins have much better life.
>> I think in this conversation you'll see
that Alex is right. Martine has a
refreshingly light, funny attitude and
way about him. He clearly does not take
himself or almost anything too
seriously. and yet has become one of the
most successful private markets
investors now helping run General
Atlantic, one of the story private
equity and growth equity franchises in
the world.
>> Drop down with no equipment other than
the spear. You let little fish go by
because you you're not there to hunt
little fish. You're waiting for the big
fish. I think his life is an adventure
where you can feel him not only getting
better, but at every single moment,
making fun of it and laughing. You'll
hear him and me laugh a lot in this
episode. I wish there was way more of
that in the investing field where so
often it's so serious and so intense.
You can have excellence and laughter at
the same time. And I think Martin and
this conversation is a testament to that
truth.
Alex, who introduced us from 3G, told me
this incredible story about you getting
a job after him telling you no and what
you did to get it. Can you tell that?
Can you tell story?
That's one of the one of one of the good
stories.
>> Coming out of business school,
I need to decide where to live because
I'm from Bolivia. Bolivia is too small.
I was finishing eight years in the US.
US felt too competitive. So I had to
think of somewhere else that had to be
big, not too competitive and have
beautiful people because I was single at
the time. So that was the criteria.
>> So Brazil
>> Brazil end of one Brazil. Uh so I look
at the most exciting jobs in Brazil and
at the time the 3G founders had a
private equity shop which at the time
was the largest private equity shop in
the emerging markets. This is 1997
and one of the partners has recently
graduated from the same school was
coming to town to interview Brazilians
to hire one person. So I was like this
is destiny. This this is for me. So I
reached out to Alex Bing who you know is
now running 3G and it's become a great
friend and I introduced myself. This
Bolivian super smart I really want to
make it in Brazil and I hear you're
doing a dinner. I'd love to come by if
you if you'll have me. And Alex, who's
super smart and tough. He's like,
Martin, we're only hiring one person and
it's not going to be a guy from Bolivia
that doesn't speak Portuguese,
so no, you can't come to my dinner. I
was like, bummer. So that night, I show
up to the dinner, introduce myself as
Martin, and I said, don't worry, I'm not
even going to eat. I just want to listen
to you because I find you interesting.
And I think he was taken back by my
boldness that he did they did interview
me. And um they did hire me, but they
made one condition. I had to take some
Portuguese lessons before I showed up,
you know, 3 months later. And I said,
"I'm happy to do it as long as you pay
for them."
>> Yeah.
>> And that's how I met my wife.
>> She was your teacher.
>> She was my teacher. She was technically
a teacher. The way it really worked is I
called my Brazilian friends and I said,
"Can you find a very smart, very
attractive Brazilian PhD master
somewhere in the Boston area and I have
someone that will pay her to talk to me
and that's I'm still married 25 years
later.
>> What What have you learned from Alex and
from his team?" The founders of 3G, the
original three founders are incredible
people whom I worked with in the
beginning of my career and um I once
wrote a book. This is 2003. The company
I had co-founded uh was was going
through trouble. I took some time off
and I wanted to answer the question of
how does one make money in countries
with so much turbulence. I mean Brazil
Brazil in the 90s and in the first
decade of the of the century was
incredibly turbulent. I mean crisis
after crisis after crisis very hard to
make to create wealth to build companies
with so little. It's like navigating
through the fog.
>> Yeah.
>> You can move very slowly and there's
things that can come at you from
different ways. I partnered with uh this
professor, this mentor of mine from
Harvard College. He was teaching at
Harvard Business School, Don Soul. And
what we did was paired company analysis.
Look at 10 very successful companies in
um in Brazil that had made tremendous
wealth creation in the crazy '90s. But
look at their actions in contrast to 10
much less successful companies during
the same period of time. uh and the test
was these were pairs of companies that
looked similar in size and value at the
beginning of the '90s but by the end of
the '90s one was at least 5x more
valuable than the other. So that was the
control group and that's how we studied
and when one of the companies is the
beer company Brahma that the Georgia Po
Lemon and Marcel Telles and Betto had
bought in 1989
that was competing against the other
bean company called Antarctica that was
owned by the Germans and at a foundation
who in 1989 was a better more profitable
more valuable company. But by a decade
later when these two merged
uh the Brahma shareholders kept 95% of
the equity value.
>> So it was 10x
>> value creation relative to the
comparison twin.
>> How did they do it? They're great spear
fishermen.
You don't chase the fish.
>> You wait.
>> Wait. You well you decide where you're
going to anchor. You drop down with no
equipment other than the spear and you
hold your breath for one minute, for two
minute. You let little fish go by
because you you're not there to hunt
little fish. You're waiting for the big
fish. And then when you're almost
running out of oxygen, you got two or
three seconds to get the big fish and
then go up as you're both feeling the
sort of lack of oxygen, he feeling a
spear through his chest. But it's an
exercise of waiting. Why do they say
these are great spear fishermen? The
step number one of spear fishing is
deciding where you're going to anchor in
looking to buy their beer company. They
started to think about it 5 years before
they were owners of the number one
investment bank in Brazil, Bank of
Guarantia. They were making tons of
money out of volatility and inflation
because you in high inflation periods
you can make a lot of money if you are
smart with math and finance. uh but they
knew inflation would end one day and
they said we want to buy a company that
will benefit from a low inflation rising
consumption.
Beer is one such company. But they
waited five years for this company to
come for sale. And it came for sale
two weeks before an election when the
Swiss owners got scared that a socialist
was going to become president
Lula first time government and he was
from the workers party and they called
them and it says can you do a deal in a
week? We'd like to get out of town. We
don't want to take the risk of a
socialist president. And Georgia have
been waiting for that big fish,
>> for five years, closed the deal in a
week.
>> And then he waited 10 years
till Antarctica was in trouble when a
big devaluation
and closed the deal in three months. And
then he waited another seven years to do
a deal with Interbru. And then the
biggest of all deals waited a following
decade to do a deal with anouser Bush
>> and and basically over this period $80
million initial investment in Brahma
became a $60 billion plus excluding
dividends but they're great fisherman
>> and they wait for the big fish and as a
concept
that is something uh I've learned from
them which is uh every four or five
years there's a once in a generation
opportunity that you have to be ready
and be willing to move quickly to
capture and if you do you can create
disproportionate value for your company
for your investors for your employees
>> do you have a a a story of your own that
is the closest to a great spear fishing
outing
>> I wasn't an entrepreneur I was set out
by these three guys to go and find great
entrepreneurial companies and invest
$500 million in 20 companies. You got 18
months. Go. In month three, I
>> That was your mission. That was
>> That was my mission. That mission number
one out of business school. Now that I
was speaking Portuguese, I could I could
go.
>> And by month three,
>> I remember talking to a buddy of mine
because we were benchmarking different
models and buddy of mine had taken a job
in the US company that went public in
the do era. clearly a bubble being
valued at 20 times revenue which sounds
quaint by today's standards by by 1998
standards
and I said Dennis
it's a bubble how does it feel to be in
a bubble and he said to me grabbed my
hand and said Martin it feels better
than being outside the bubble and I was
like he's absolutely right I have to go
into this bubble I'm in the wrong side
of the
So very quickly left the fund and within
I think three months we had raised $80
million to launch subarino.com
>> uh which was the e-commerce Amazon.com
merged with Alibaba
uh to take on Brazil and that happened
very very quickly. A second time after
we sold my business during the GFC, I I
was working for another fund briefly
and
looking to buy sort of a fixed income
exchange in Brazil which a dominant
platform 80% margin business
a lot of competition and then all of a
sudden the GFC happened and everyone
dropped out everyone and I was like no
you double down and we were able to buy
a market dominant high margin business
that's six times
>> and we did it in two months
>> and people are like what do you mean
you're doing something with the GFC and
I said if we're not willing to buy a
dominant platform a six times ITA
>> we should shut down
>> the world it means the world is ending
and we should the world is not ending a
dominant platform will always be worth
more than six times IA and there's been
you know every every three or four years
there's one such
unique distortion that you have to move
very quickly. That's perhaps one of the
learnings of being an entrepreneur in
the dotcom. Like I'm a rare investor
that has been an operator, but I it's
not just that I was I had been an
operator.
>> What the do taught me and I just
realized this recently. You can do seven
years of work in one year.
>> Say Marvel. What do you mean?
>> Like when you when Elon Musk says, you
know, do your 10ear plan and try to get
it done in one year. Yeah. You're like,
he's like crazy. Yeah.
>> Look what he's built.
>> Yeah.
>> In in the dot, it felt like the world
was on steroids.
>> Like in Sumarino, not only had we raised
$80 million within the first three
months. Within one year, I was in charge
of uh international, we opened Sumarino
in six countries with warehouses and
customers and registrations and teams.
It was done in one year. If you had told
me how long it would take a normal
person to do that, I would say 3 to four
years. going fast and we were like no we
we have to do it like this is a first
first mover will be incredibly valuable
we did it in one year so it's this this
ability to move very very fast to
capture opportunities which are fleeting
which seem humanly impossible are
actually not
>> this seems like a moment of that is
happening maybe on mega steroids you
know I think of a company like cognition
as a recent example that I know well
where the pace of growth of the business
is it's just sort of hard to believe
that it's possible. You know, it's
serving developers. Maybe previously a
company like Stripe, which is one of the
great companies in the US in the
technology world, is a certain size.
It's grown that size over 15 years. And
these things are growing at a pace that
is it's sort of hard to wrap one's head
around. And so I'm curious how you think
about that in the current moment right
now, but also what lessons you learned
about what it takes to go to put a
10-year plan into one year. like what
what is different about the behavior in
that compressed one-year period that
makes that possible?
>> So, this is like my fourth or fifth
bubble and all bubbles are born out of a
a truly transformative
>> technology
>> technology. Yeah.
>> And in all the previous bubbles,
the promise was spectacular. The short
term was disappointing and the long term
delivered more than expected.
>> Yeah. But in that process, a lot of
fortunes were made and destroyed.
>> Yeah.
>> So, um I think as a firm, John Athletic
has been around for 45 years. We try to
make different mistakes
>> in each bubble.
>> And I'm sure we're making
our approach this time,
different from the internet, has been to
be incredibly aggressive at deploying AI
in the portfolio.
>> Yeah.
>> The promise of AI is clear to everyone.
Let's see what's working in the real
world and let's share Brex practices.
And we got incredible scale with over
200 portfolio companies. We have a 100
people in our portfolio support
portfolio operations team. This year
we'll do 500 projects with the
portfolio. A third of them are AI
projects. So we're seeing what works in
the front lines. And as soon as we see a
use case with real ROI and real revenue
to the provider of the service and you
can sort of model what the economics and
the cost to serve and what the long-term
profitability maybe is of this exciting
new market,
>> then we pounce.
>> The first one where we felt that has
happened is code generation.
>> Yeah. Cognition and cursor and
>> and it's just happened right now in the
last 12 months.
>> It's crazy. I mean based on public
information anthropic revenues and
coaching went from 200 million to over 4
billion in 12 months in B2B that kind of
growth has not happened ever ever and
it's so exciting and it's working in
real life and programmers are happy and
then all of a sudden you've got this new
reality where human programmers are
hyperproductive and they're working
alongside agentic programmers who have
no moral northstar and do not sleep. and
how you get them to work together to a
common output which is super sensitive
to you the client who's running on the
software.
>> Yeah,
>> super exciting. That's one area
marketing optimization. Uh obviously
it's it's machine learning on steroids.
Uh we we we we're investors in Liftoff
which is very much on this. We're
investors in a software company called
Insider that does enterprise marketing
optimization. Uh data companies
turbocharged with AI. We're investors in
a Israeli company called VI. There's so
much. It's super exciting. It's super
risky. We're probably going to go look
back and say we weren't bold enough in
going for the killer app soon enough,
but we've been bold enough before and it
didn't pay to go very early. And I think
what's really interesting about GA and
we've been around for 45 years through
all these technological cycles and we've
been international for 30 years. We've
been in the in emerging markets for 25
years. We take on a lot of risk, micro
risk. We take on a lot of technology
risk because we are investing across
what we call 18 power alleys that cut
across five sectors.
Guess what our loss ratio is?
>> Tell me
>> 4%.
>> On capital or on capital
>> on capital on capital. Okay.
um
for this kind of like when in venture
and growth equity loss ratios of 20 to
40% are common but there's something
about the way we deal with risk that
allows us to capture what we think are
reasonably good returns but that's
surprisingly
low risk ratio and it has to do I think
with an appetite for risk uh we don't
take binary risk for us in when we do
the sort of the scenario planning of
three to 1,000 scenarios on one dozen in
mind in one mind like you do when you
think of an investment for us a worst
case scenario a company grows into the
valuation we paid for it
and that limits what you do it limits
the timing of where you go into a new
industry you probably leave some money
on the table but you also leave a lot of
risk on the table and that product of
you know reasonable returns with low
risk
is a great product.
>> I have 95% of my net worth in that
product and I sleep well at night.
>> Yeah.
>> I have a vastly undiversified portfolio
of you know two assets GA. Yeah. And
treasuries.
>> The the the 45 years ago the sort of
origin story of GA itself is so
interesting. Chuck Feny such an
interesting character. How does his
spirit loom in the business and in your
personal consciousness?
>> He's the accidental billionaire. got the
idea of duty-free by looking at naval
bases where commerce was free in the
Pacific during the Korea war. Starts
building these duty-free shops, becomes
a billionaire, sells to Louis Vuitton,
and he's confronted with the question,
what is the purpose of wealth? What do I
do with this wealth? And his answer
resonated really well with me. The
purpose of wealth is to improve the
human condition now, not tomorrow, now.
because the present value of happier
life for more people now is very
valuable. Uh so he wants to give it all
away. Forget giving half away.
>> He's I'm he's like my v my dream is my
last check will bounce. I want to die a
poor man and I want to give it all. Uh
but before I give it all, I believe uh
you can create additional wealth by
investing in innovation, by backing
great entrepreneurs globally. And he
said, you at GA to the original founding
team at GA, go back the world's best
entrepreneurs, be a good partner, and
know that all the proceeds of our work
will go to great causes. And we've been
doing that for 45 years, backing great
innovators
everywhere. We've invested in over 500
companies over the last 45 years. Half
of our investments have been in the
United outside of the United States. And
we've seen the power of innovation to
create wealth uh globally. This is not a
privilege just to US. It's not a
privilege just to European. And this
concept of what is the purpose of wealth
is also meaningful personally. Like I I
I think when I think of the wealth I'm
creating and the people that I work with
are creating, we're all incredibly
thoughtful
of how we allocate our time and wealth
to make the world better and in the ways
that are meaningful to us. And there's
no right and wrong. Uh but I find that
accumulating wealth is a is is makes you
gloated and slow using your body and
your life as a a channel of you know
wealth that comes but goes to places
that can be made better. But it's a
beautiful way to approach life and
particularly if you're in the profession
of allocating other people's wealth into
great innovators. It it all makes sense.
It all fits in internally consistent and
that's why we've been around for 45
years. They're not that many. You can
count them in in both hands. The number
of firms that are investors in tech and
innovation that have been around and
been successful this long. And I think
it has to do with the internally
consistent vision, mission, and plan
that Chuck had for GA.
>> That's not a normal origin story for a
firm like this. Usually, it's a really
just purely commercial enterprise. Some
young investors set off and and build a
firm. Um, this was different. What else
about that founding DNA makes the setup
of the firm unique? How does his
original vision and setup allow you to
act differently than others do today?
>> There's this phrase written into our
founding documents which is we're good
partners to each other
to our founders and to our clients. The
partnership ethos is fundamental. And
when you look at 45 years of references
of 500 people we've 500 companies,
thousands of people we've partnered with
and you say, "What do you think of GA?"
They're good partners. They're good
guys. They're good people. They they say
they do what they say they're going to
do. They put the company's interests
first. Sometimes we're accused of being
dolphins in a sea of sharks. And I love
to be a dolphin. Who wants to be a
shark? Dolphins have much better life.
Uh so I think that's a big part of the
firm's DNA. So I'll give you an example.
I uh I ran our general Atlantics uh
Latin America program for the first
seven eight years of my career at
General Atlantic and in all the due
diligence uh sessions they asked me
what's how did you do it? Yeah. How did
you make money in the one neighborhood
that no one makes money because
no I just I don't go that's part of the
reason but the other reason
is I say the reason we do well in Latin
America is we don't have a Latin America
fund.
>> Ah
>> because if we had a Latin America fund
>> we're going to put money in Latin
America.
>> We're going to buy at the top but sell
at the bottom. H and you know what? If
you want to make money you do the
opposite. You buy at the bottom you say
at the top and they're like oh
interesting. Why doesn't why don't other
people do it? It turns out it's really
hard to do to um
have a team in Latin America or in China
or in India or in Southeast Asia
compete for attention and money through
a Guang Global IC.
It's so hard to do unless your culture
is about partnership. The culture
demands good partnership.
>> Yeah. and the culture expels behavior
that's not consistent with being a good
partner. We're structured in in a way
that first we are the largest investor
in our own product by design. Right now
we have about the employees of General
Athletic have about 8% of the funds we
administer over $5 billion of our own
capital. This does not feel like
managing other people's money. this
feels my day-to-day I'm managing my
family wealth first and foremost and I'm
doing it with care and with intention
and purpose the way we um
fund raise is different also one one of
the problems with the industry is the
fund the five-year fundraising cycle to
to be able to raise your next fund you
have to deploy at a certain speed and
you need to return capital a certain
cadence otherwise you don't get to do
the next fund and if there is that
winter of risk like we've had for the
last three years. Uh you're out of dry
powder exactly at the time that things
are on sale. So the traditional
fundraising cycle fiveyear cycle creates
lots of distortions and pain for our
industry. Uh we have an evergreen a
hybrid evergreen fundraising cycle
meaning yes every two to three years we
have a normal fund. So if you want a
normal fund come to GA every two or
three years perfect but if you're a
large institution and are willing to do
a standard managed account
you can come in anytime and the two
structures invest at same portfolio from
here forward there's never conflict of
mind the legacy but the advantage of
that is there's no fundraising cliffs
we're always fundraising it's always
steady there's no big jumps there's no
pressure to liquidate something to meet
some artificial target that makes our
lives so much easier. And then the the
sort of third component that I think is
distinctive which I hated initially
because uh we have a communist system of
compensation which is you all get a
percent of the total performance not
your individual performance. I was you
kidding me? I'm a spear fisherman.
>> I'm a spear fisherman. I I I got some
big fish left in me. I mean this
communism didn't work in the Soviet
Union. Why is that going? And then I saw
how it changed everything.
in that the level of collaboration is
fantastic. And the way you prevent the
Soviet Union from happening is if you're
not pulling your weight, you're not on
the boat. So, it's a meritocracy in that
you to be in this community where we all
win together and lose together. We all
have to be effective and bringing as
much into the partnership that we're
taking away from it. And that's what
keeps the health and meritocracy of the
system. But there isn't a hyper
incentive to be hyperproductive because
if I'm hyperproductive, I'll make more
wins in that game. No, it's it's it's
much more about winning as a team as
opposed to winning as an individual.
>> The the that dual structure, which is
unusual, you know, not not common. What
are the negatives or tradeoffs
associated with that? Like do the fund
investors get upset that they don't
really know like what percent of the
total they're going to get? There's two
two two very serious trade-offs. First
of all, it takes forever to explain.
>> We'll do it at scale right here. They'll
never have to do anything.
>> And they're like, why do you have two
series and why which one is better?
Which one is worse? I can get it why
this is good for you, but how is it good
for me? So, sort of the on boarding
experience is a painful experience. The
other uh downside is fundraising is a
perpetual activity. Whereas for uh a lot
of my competitors every five years it's
a six-month sprint that all they do is
fund raise and then they can not fund
raise for another four and a half years.
>> It's kind of like binge dieting. You do
it you only do it once every six years.
And for us it's a no-brainer. That's a
structure that leads to more productive
deployment of C. My my friend John Kim
who is a we're very well-known
fundraiser at General Catalyst has this
simple equation which is that persuasion
equals desire minus fear. What have you
learned about fundraising given that
you've had to do it as a firm on a
constant basis?
>> I think most humans go from FOMO to fear
and one of the traps of our industry is
you can only fund raise when things are
very expensive
>> because that's when everyone's on FOMO.
Have you been able to invert that fear
to FOMO problem so that you can if you
have been able to raise some money in
the harder times? What is the key to
doing that? Well,
>> there's always someone in the world that
has excess capital even in a time of
fear
and you go there. I I do this like in
Brazil, you know, one other of our
tricks or tricks, our strategies to
navigate global complexity
is in every geography we're in,
we have the best families, the most
entrepreneurial families become
investors and we cultivate them not
necessarily for their money, but for
their insights
>> around the country and around the
entrepreneurs with which we partner. It
takes a really long time and and a lot
of those families are typically
entrepreneurial. They're like, "No, no,
I don't invest in funds. I invest
directly because I created a business
and I'm so good and I'm good at getting
the big fish. And I'm like I asked him
very simple question. I say hey um what
percent of your net worth you have in
Brazil?
>> And they're like h like liquid net
worth. No, no, no, no, total net worth.
And they're like the number is typically
between 90 and 95%. I said that's very
interesting. And I said close your eyes.
Imagine you're not Brazilian. you're a
citizen of the world, what percent of
your wealth would you put in Brazil? And
they're like, oh, 3%. Yeah, how about I
help you get a little closer to three
than the 95 you're in. So, I find that
argument to be genuinely effective
because it's genuinely in their best
interest.
>> And I think people have a natural
tendency to overinvest in that in which
they understand. And of course, those
families understand what it is to invest
in Brazil. But in doing that they're
massively underdiversified and the world
has become really really risky and
there's only one free lunch in finance.
Do you remember that from
>> diversification is the only free lunch.
H so thinking strategically about you
know how to diversify with whom to
diversify is is hard but super valuable
if you want that free lunch. Speaking of
diversification, maybe the most
interesting dimension of that today is
geographic. We were talking before we
hit record about the incredibly wide
gulf between the pristine US, you know,
equity assets and basically everywhere
else in the world. There was a time when
you saw this chart between like the S&P
500 and the Aquorld XUS or something and
it was kind of back and forth and back
and forth and then the line has just
gone like this for 20 years where the US
has just so completely dominated
everybody else in enterprise value
creation or or some measure like that.
How do you interpret that shift? Is it
secular? Is it is it going to be
cyclical and go back towards the
international markets? What do you think
about that crazy bifurcation?
The premium for ex US exceptionalism has
never been higher. US public equities
are trading at 26 times earnings for a
4%
forecasted growth which is at the 97th
percentile of the last 25 years. And the
US dollar despite a 10% depreciation
this year is pretty much uh two standard
deviations far away from the uh the
neutral state.
So the US has never been
this expensive. I love the US. It's
still the number one economy. I still
want have half my assets in the US, but
not 90% of my assets in the US. Not only
is it very expensive, total debt to GDP
is 125% of GDP. That is the highest of
the OECD. It's higher than it was after
World War II when America levered to
defeat the axis of evil. current plans
in place, within five years, we're going
to be at 145% of GDP, which is higher
than Greece and Italy. And the US has
not had a recession since 2009. Are you
sure you want to have 95% of your assets
in the United States of America? I I
don't. Um, if you look at the rest of
the world, uh, you can buy Europe at 14
times earnings, you can buy Brazil at
nine times earnings, you can buy Mexico
at 10 times earnings. uh we're we're
finding 40 50% growers at 12 times I
zipa 14 times IDIA many of them serving
dollarized clients uh so
the case for global diversification the
price for global earnings the case has
never been strongest the price has never
been lower on a relative basis so I do
think that in the next 10 years those
who achieve some level of a
diversification will be rewarded because
I do think uh there's a little bit of
froth in the US market and the opposite
in a lot of the emerging markets.
>> What have you learned on any recent
trips to China?
>> China is fascinating and I've been going
to China for 25 years and I've seen the
development. It's the fastest change in
terms of per capita GDP in modern
history or any country at at scale. It's
an incredibly complex society.
um tremendous amount of innovation and
we were lucky in having been early in
China as G. We've been investing there
from 25 years. I am highly optimistic
that tensions have stabilized and that
market conditions are are are are
improving and we've been underweight
China for the last 5 years where we're
we just we just did two deals. We're
going to pick it up a little bit.
There's always binary risk on the around
the geopolitics, but there's just so
much innovation. There's much so much
entrepreneurial zeal. Um the one thing I
learned I actually learned over drinks
with a Chinese entrepreneur. So I I've
done business in 19 countries and I love
to connect on a human level with the
entrepreneur. So much so much even at
growth stage so much of the assessment
of the company and of the partnership is
about chemistry and uh it was very hard
for me to build chemistry with the
Chinese entrepreneurs. One night I'm
having a long dinner with lots of um you
know good food and and alcohol with an
entrepreneur who was an anthropology PhD
of University of Arkansas. And I said if
someone can explain me the Chinese
mentality it's this man. He said to me
and like any oversimplification it's
unfair but there's a grain of truth. And
he said um what you have to understand
about the entrepreneurs you're dealing
with. He said, "This generation of
entrepreneurs,
people who are in their 30s and 40s,
they're all children of the cultural
revolution.
Everything was taken away
from these families, everything. And
they are scarred and they have something
to prove because they think something
was stolen and they will get it back."
So there's a level of drive and ethic,
work ethic that probably matches the
refugees of World War II that came to
the states and did these great
businesses after World War II or other
people that have, you know, had hardship
in in their life. But this applies to
98% of the entrepreneurs.
They saw it with their parents.
>> So that's the other condition you should
take into account. How do your ancestors
show up in your life and values?
>> We're all products of our traumas and
our adventures and our dreams is my
worldview. So what are my traumas? Some
are personal and some are generational.
The generational traumas
on my mother's side
Jewish family had to flee the Russian
Empire through Romania, then Argentina,
then Bolivia. So fleeing leaving
everything behind from my father's side
very wealthy uh landed oligarchy of
Bolivia h in 1952 there's a revolution
they lose everything and their house and
farms get burned down and they almost
die
>> when my father was a teenager. So on
both sides there's a sense of loss and
uh escape that is very present and they
uh decide to become communists and
doctors. They're both doctors in public
hospitals in a little town in Bolivia.
So that's their their trauma which I
relate to the cultural revolution.
They are religious so not not atheist.
Um in in my personal life the trauma
trauma comes from two places for me. Uh
one is I grew up in Bolivia in the 80s
and that was chaos. Bolivia in the 80s
seven presidents in 10 years including
four coup detas. We had inflation now
you got 5% inflation. We had 35,000%
inflation. So time
>> 35 35,000 time value of money. I
understand. Okay. Like like the only
time my mom ever punished me was one
time she sent me to exchange her salary
for dollars when she got it. And I took
a 1-hour break to visit a friend and it
lost half its value in that hour. So I I
I was grounded for a year because of
that one hour break on the exchange. So
anyways, uh so so so and there was also
a lot of violence because of ethnic
violence in Bolivia. So it was it was
rough. It was it felt unsafe. It felt
turbulent. And then I I have a genetic
disorder. I I I bruise very easily like
very very easily. So getting out of bed,
deciding what activity to do is a
riskreward tradeoff since the age of
five.
>> And that is a way of seeing the world
that most people
>> risk. Like I know how to price risk. I'm
like ah not worth it. My my friends are
like why are you always thinking of the
downside? Well, quit. I have my reasons.
So anyway, so that's I I find when
trying to understand a person, I do it
with entrepreneurs, seeing what their
trauma was is super useful because I
find a lot of the most driven people are
driven because of foundational traumas.
And if you understand them and you're
traumatized yourself, you can relate and
empathize, but you also understand the
intensity
that drives them. and and whether they
can manage it and channel it
productively. But but if you can, it is
such a wonderful engine of
transformation
and it's cur curative. It's it's healing
to channel it in a positive way.
>> Have you ever worked with somebody that
did extremely well with none of that
traumabased drive who was just well
adjusted and happy and kicked ass?
>> No. Still looking for her or him. zero.
And
>> and again, it doesn't need to be rack to
riches. It doesn't need to be a big
disease. It could be like I heard one of
one of our one of my fiercest
competitors. He was cleaning. He was
mowing the lawns of his buddies who were
with the cute girls and his entire life
he wanted to show them. I don't judge.
That's a real trauma. Pain is pain.
>> Yeah.
>> So, how did you learn to harness it?
because the the other end of the
spectrum could be unharnessed and just
chaos. How do you learn to harness or
channel it to something productive?
>> Managing one's emotions productive
requires either therapy, writing a
journal, or meditating. You should do
two of the three.
I do two of the three.
>> Try to do the third one, but it's really
hard.
>> Meditation.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. We're on the same page. If if I
asked a bunch of people that knew you
and the investments that you've made
across your career, what is a U
investment? Like what are the
characteristics where they see that
company like, oh, you know, how would
they describe it?
>> This is a funny story. I'll answer the
question, but I'll answer. Yeah.
>> Uh, so when I got promoted to chairman
of the investment committee, so elevated
from a Latin America role my life to uh
head of the investment committee of
General Atlantic, this iconic global, I
was lost. So I go to the the the
founding two founders. Steve Denning was
a CEO for the first 20 years.
>> Army man, Mckenzie man, Stanford MBA
structured. I say, Steve,
how do I
make decisions across so many
geographies and business models? What's
the framework you think I should apply
to add value to my partners? and he
said, "You should develop a checklist
that captures the characteristics of a
winning GA deal." So, go back and look
at our 25 years of history, our best
deals. I'll share a couple
characteristics. I I give you the three
M's, but they're probably five Ps as
well. Create a checklist. And I was
like, "Yeah, checklist." Same day, I go
to the co-founder, uh, Dave Hodgson.
He's he's just super glued but just the
smartest guy in the room always.
>> Yeah.
>> And I asked him the same question and
the first thing he says
refuse avoid the temptation to use a
checklist. If it was as simple as a
checklist, we wouldn't get paid millions
of dollars to do what we do. And I was
checklist. No checklist. Okay. So
whenever there is a paradox, there's an
elegant
unparadoxing of the paradox.
>> Yeah. So Danny Kaliman, thinking fast,
think slow checklist manifesto built on
work he did for the Israeli Defense
Forces to create the checklist for the
elite agents. Turns out uh the checklist
work, but in applying the idea of
checklist, there were these super
interviewers
that got even better results
consistently than just the average
interviewer. So, well, there was
something beyond the checklist that that
was statistically significant. And
there's one interview of the super
interviewer where she says, "I do the
checklist because I have to, but after I
do the appraisal, I close it and I close
my eyes and see how I feel and I go with
my gut and she has perfect scores."
So the uh framework I use for what's the
perfect martin or g ide deal is the
combination of a checklist with my gut
which I call the educated intuition.
What's in the checklist of things we
like? Huge TAMs, business models that
create economic value and have mode
teams with the right go forward
capabilities. Uh situations where
there's inorganic growth to get and
there's tremendous amount of strategic
value meaning someone will overpay to
have this capability if we are
successful. Uh so those are the things
that uh the checklist aspires. Me
personally, in the deals I've led, um,
they have to make the world better. I am
so proud that I invested in the number
one investing platform in Brazil when
there were only 80,000 people that own
stocks in Brazil. And now 10 million
people
>> own stocks.
>> What's it called?
>> XP. It's publicly traded, $10 billion
market cap. I invested when they were
nothing. I am so proud that I went
against every convention and invested on
an edtech company. ETH was a dark alley.
We have power alleys. There are some
places we don't touch. And I was like,
"No, no, no. This is different. This is
different." This little company in the
northeast of Brazil which was creating K
through2 learning systems which is sort
of a instead of using textbooks, you
package everything in a sort of hybrid
notebook with digital
went from 80,000 students to 8 million
students. 8 million kids every day today
uh use this platform and it's world
class. is really good content and it's
an amazing entrepreneur, son of a
teacher and we made money. Uh we have a
platform that uh 97% of financial
institutions use for digital on
boarding. Turns out Brazil is the world
capital of online fraud and this is the
one company that catches it. And I am so
proud that I started mentoring this kid
when his company was nothing and I did
it through Endeavor and it took me eight
years before I had like became
investable for J and then we invested
and now they're dominant and so it's if
they makes the world better I you see
it's beyond money. It's energy. If the
checklist is mind and the instinct is
gut, have you met a great investor who's
mostly heart?
Uh, no. I think
heart is super important if you want to
be a leader of a large organization
because you have to move the hearts of
hundreds, thousands of people to row in
the same direction with purpose and and
with effectiveness. Uh and that is
crucial and the heart is so powerful. It
overrides gut and brain. It and to do it
at scale. You you see these people that
are super good leaders. The energy is
captivating and they are wizards of the
trade. It's really hard to do all three.
A and part of being a good investor
is to not fall in love
because at the end of the day you have a
fiduciary duty to produce returns and
you have to make some tough calls and
love is a treacherous thing. So funny
story. So the one time that I didn't
follow the checklist was uh for love. So
obviously I had a checklist for the
woman I'm going to marry. And when I met
Daniela, my Portuguese teacher, she
didn't score very high on the checklist.
>> Where was she deficient?
>> I will say, but things that are
absolutely irrelevant to the task at
hand. I had the wrong framework.
And she was perfect in every way. And
she's been perfect in every way. So, in
matters of the heart,
forget the checklist.
>> Yeah.
>> But I don't think the three of them come
together in the investment profession.
>> You uh you mentioned the two founders.
What about Bill Ford? What have you
learned from him?
>> Oh, Bill.
so much. Uh, so I think I I've worked
with Bill for 15 years. I actually
pitched Bill my startup and this is 1998
came in through through New York and I
had heard a lot about General Atlantic
and how they're different and they think
long term and they're good partners and
Chuck Feny really hard to get the
meeting. We give them the meeting. Bill
and I really hit it off. I made the
pitch and he's like, "Uh,
we're not ready for Brazil.
>> I'm really sorry." And I was heartbroken
because I really wanted G. And Bill was
an amazing guy. 10 years later after I
sold my business, was working at another
fund. He called me and was like,
"Remember me?" I was like, "Yeah, I
remember you." He's like, "Can we try
this again?" I said, "Yeah, we can try
this again, but just for you know, you
would have made 18 times your money if
you had said yes." So, yeah, yeah, I
know. I know. I know. So, come. Bill um
has an incredible ability to see around
corners and and and be visionary in
making bets before they're obvious.
>> So going into Europe, going to the
emerging markets, going into consumer,
going into life sciences, pushing me now
to go into robotics and humanoids, I'm
like, Bill, too early. No, we need to go
to So he's he's he's an incredible
ability to to look around corners. He uh
also in managing the partnership
and us has heart not for investment
decision- making but in keeping our
culture the meritocracy of the firm also
with heart has helped me develop as a
leader of of GA and letting from the
heart and is an incredible money maker
so his mind
>> that helps too
>> that helps that tip detail
>> as you've progressed in your investing
specific career.
>> What changes the most as you become more
senior? How does it feel the most
different doing it today versus doing it
when you're a, you know, lots to prove
young analyst?
>> Yeah. The hardest thing when you're
young is developing patience and the
conviction that you can wait a little
longer for the big fish. You're young,
it's up or out. You want to get going.
>> You want to get going. You want to get
deal experience. You want to get notches
on your belt. And that's completely
wrong instinct. And when you're older,
you have a lot more range. You've seen a
lot more and you got patience. You're
like,
>> "Nothing scares me and I know a big fish
will come. Calm down. No pressure."
>> Um,
you are less in the front lines and more
as a coach player helping you, training
young partners to do what you used to
do. Uh, and initially that can be very
demotivating because Tom Brady likes to
be on the field, not coaching or opining
on Fox. Yeah, maybe not not so fun. Uh
until you re re-imagine the game and you
live vicariously through the people
you're training and you enjoy their wins
almost as much as you enjoyed your wins.
So that's been the the the the me the
mental flip that I had to do to enjoy
this phase because of course scoring
goals is better than coaching of unless
you make the mental shift that live
vicariously through them. The hard thing
and that's why there's not that many
venture and growth equity investors over
over the age of 50. It's not just that
we call in rich or we get tired or we
develop new interest. I I think our
brain ages and stops being plastic. So
one one one of the uh great learnings
from beautiful mind Dave Hodson who's
aged beautifully. He's in his late 60s
and is very sharp and very much on top
of the new trends and he defies the
convention and I said what what what is
the secret to forget Peter Ata I want to
hear from you
I just want the brain I don't I don't
care about my V8 and the max I want I
want the young brain and he said three
things the most important one is I
refuse to think like an old man
still plays I still wonder I'm still in
awe and I don't fall into the trap of
thinking I have the answer to
everything. I'm always learning,
experimenting, and playing. And that's
the hardest part because uh we have this
illusion as we get older that there's no
room for play. There's no room for play.
There's always room for play.
>> How do you inject that into your life?
>> You just don't take yourself too
seriously. I'm always laughing about
everything. making fun of every even
even when confronted with the worst
perfect storm where something happens I
start laughing and I say what are the
odds so many bad things could happen all
at once this HAS NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE
SEVEN THINGS AT THE SAME time let's work
through it
that attitude I think is makes life a
lot more fun
>> so so what do you make of this current
bubble that we're inside outside you
know depending on the
You mentioned humanoids, you mentioned
bio a little bit. Like there's there's
all this exciting stuff happening
probably all of which in the long run
will be amazing for people be a lot of
consumer surplus and all this. Um you
want to make money you know through this
process for your for yourself and your
partners. How does it feel to you to
>> this is more meaningful because it will
touch a higher percentage of GDP
>> right? The internet was the other very
meaningful one but it changes how we
interact with each other. This will
change much more than that. Unambiguous
recommendation. If you're in your 20s or
early 30s, go work at AI because you're
going to live through dog years.
Meaning, what we're talking about.com,
seven years of activity in one year. And
regardless of whether that company does
well or you make money, you're going to
have compressed learning
that only happens once every 20 years.
So, don't miss that opportunity. And
when I say that age group, I mean that
mental age group. You could be in your
50s and be in that mental after when
you're ready to take risk. Just go do
it. If you have a young mind today, go
work in AI because it's going to be so
much fun and the learning or I think
investing uh is risky. Our approach
which may prove to be too conservative
was to take it slow because it's not
clear yet where the value is going to be
created. It's not clear yet how much
more powerful the large language models
are versus others that are more
efficient um or how much of the value
will be captured by the by the models
versus the applications. So it's
exciting to watch. I know we're going to
have a moment where we're all going to
wake up and say we've invested too much.
I don't know if it's three years away or
18 months. I don't think it's No, for
sure it hasn't happened yet.
>> You don't think so? You don't think
there's a chance that we're like kind of
at we're in that moment already?
>> No.
>> Why? Why not?
>> It's not crazy enough. Well, I was
looking at some stats at comparing the
AI wave, let's not call it a bubble
wave,
to the com and to the railroads. And
it's looking at the ratio of capex to
revenue and and what percent of GDP was
involved in this and how was this capex
funded?
and uh capex to revenue still not crazy
and revenues new revenue streams are are
managing and the biggest difference
relative to railroads and.com
is the funds are coming from really rich
companies the magnificent six who are
printing money out of their dominant
positions are reinvesting a lot of this
money into the capex that's powering all
this innovation so it's very healthy
it's it's not junk bond speculators or
thin margin telecom companies that are
levering up the wazoo with retail money
to fund
this wave of innovation. It's really
profitable companies. So, I think it's
got more legs. Will it be bumpy? Yes. Uh
but the thing about predicting the
future is it's really hard. Explaining
the past is a lot easier. I'm always
interested in this difference between
risk, which I think of as sometimes
quantifiable or imaginable, and pure
uncertainty, like we literally just
don't know what's going to happen or and
if you think about where you've made
money, how much do you think came from
the un willingness to like embrace
uncertainty versus taking really
calculated risks? Listen, uh you never
invest
a lot of money without visibility to
what you're doing.
Uh there is fog and different layers of
fog. And what the fog does is it slows
you down, but if you look pierce
through, you see clarity. You see a
monopolist at six times. You see an
opportunity to take it's not a shot in
the dark and hope for the best. And what
you can't do is just shut down and say
this is too rust, too
>> like too unpredictable.
>> Yeah.
>> You just have to engage with the
unpredictability until you see something
before others and you strike for the
fish.
>> In an era like this when it's all
changing so fast and understanding the
core technologies is important. How do
you how do you personally learn like
what is your preferred method to stay a
breast of what is going on and like stay
in touch with reality?
>> Talk to young people.
>> Yeah.
>> Surf Tik Tok.
Try different apps. Try crazy things. Go
to places where there are no old people
>> and you don't care. I don't care someone
calls me old. I'm just playing.
>> Uh so it's it's just keep it fresh.
>> Value is in the new. M
>> being in the new always
>> uh even if it turns out to be a dead
end. Most of what we do is dead ends
>> but it doesn't mean it wasn't valuable
to try it.
>> Uh so that's the hardest thing.
>> There's been this wild transformation of
our industry in the time that you've
been a professional in it. Um what does
the competitive dynamic feel like to you
today? There's so many smart
>> the universe of amazing companies has
expanded. uh the number of hundred
million dollar revenue business growing
40 50% has grown 10x uh because more
technology more people taking risk in
more places unfortunately we compete
against 19,000 GPS like one of our it
was it was not very nice thing to say
but one of my competitors said there's
more GPS than McDonald's in in the
United States which you know it's one of
those GPS that are smaller they don't
feel nice when you compare McDonald it's
really too many GPS and and the industry
is consolidating
It's become incredibly competitive. You
have to have more clarity. What is your
competitive edge? How have we thought
about our edge brand? We've built this
brand about being good partners. This
brand means something and people get
value from GA inside. Attracts helps
them recruit talent, get clients, go
public
scale to have muscles that small shops
don't have. We have 100 people in
operations. They can help you with
pricing, Salesforce effectiveness, AI
for what customer service, whatever you
need. We got a team. It's there for
free. Go for scale. We got an in-house
human talent team that has taps into a
database of 15,000 vetted executives
that you need a CTO. We'll send you a
list tomorrow of eight guys in the area
who we've worked with and I think fit.
That's that's that's an area. And then
you have to be a specialist. Can't be a
generalist anymore. So, we've chosen
what we call the GA power alleys. There
are 16 parallies, things like AI
applications, value based care, digital
payments, 16 paralysis. Check the
website. In those paralities, we think
we're among the best in the world and we
show up with 32 case studies of we've
done this 32 times. And yes, you can
copy things that work, but guess what?
You don't know the things that didn't
work that we tried that we're going to
prevent you from trying.
So it it's made it harder to compete.
But I do think scale and experience
helps
provided you are deliberate at learning
from the experience and focused on how
you build capabilities with scale in
areas that really matter not just look
good on a website. If you're teaching a
seminar about or for young investors who
are only allowed to go invest in non US
companies, so everything but the US,
what are the most important things for
that crew to know
>> about doing that well that's distinct
from what it would take to do well in
the US?
>> There's a lot more volatility.
So there the frequency of surprises is
much higher. So agility is is is super
important.
Um we're also low trust cultures. They
um even though most of them are
religious doesn't mean you can trust.
So a higher percentage of the time you
may find yourself with a crook uh across
the table. So the value of referencing
is is is much more important. And how to
do a good reference is super important
because people don't say bad things
about other people easily. So that's
another one. H the third one which is a
positive one which is the one great
advantage of being outside the US is
there's so many things that don't work
well
>> lower hanging fruit
>> humongous lowerhanging fruit and if you
provide a great service you capture a
lot of value for a really long time.
>> How do you do a good reference
>> for an investment? You do it with a
family that has given you money to make
investments and you say, "Jang, we're
about to invest $200 million in this
entrepreneur.
Uh, you know, you know his grandfather.
Do you think we should take this risk?"
>> And he's like, "Oh, no way.
He's a crook. Son of a crook." Because
he has money with you. He tells you the
truth. If you didn't have money with
you, he'd say at worst he'd say, "I
don't know. There's some noise. I would
do my homework or they're fine." Like,
now for hiring,
there's another hack which I learned
which is so important. So much of life
is getting the right people on the bus.
And when you're going to do a reference
on a hire, you call the person and you
say, "Hey, I'm about to we're
considering David for this role. This
role involves the following five
challenges. Ba ba ba.
This is a very important decision for my
company because we can't get this wrong.
It's also a very big decision for David
because he's happy at his job and if he
gets this wrong, if we get this wrong,
we've wasted time and he's out of a job.
Help me assess if this is a good risk
for me and Dave. And if you can have an
honest discussion, if you don't feel
comfortable engaging like this, let's
not talk about it. But that's what I
need the reference for. You'd be
surprised. People are like, "Well, for
that risk, David, leave him there. He's
fine." But but that is a genuine way to
answer it because what I described is
actually true. If this is a bad fit,
David should not be taking this job.
Reference calls are like are not tell me
about David. Is he a good guy? That's a
waste of time because Dave People say,
"Yeah, he's a great guy. He's a great
guy, very competent.
>> What have you learned about
managing help manage the career success
of investors, which is a very
distinctive job from a career ladder in
a company or something? Um, incentives
matter a lot, I'm sure. I'm curious what
you've learned about incentives. Um,
what mistakes have you made? You know,
if you think about you being responsible
for other investors and you wanting them
to thrive, what what's the good, the
bad, and the ugly that that you've
>> It's an apprenticeship business. So,
pairing them up with different people
with different skills, different styles
is super important. Helping them from a
very young age to make recommendations.
Don't just do the task.
Answer the so what and ultimately say
what's my level of conviction in doing
this investment? don't rely just on this
more senior people. Actually, one of the
tricks I used to do because I've been in
three investment committees in my
career, you know, the 3G advent and uh I
would try to understand the mind of each
investment committee member and predict
what they're going to ask. So, I would
read the memo and say George Apollo is
going to ask this, Bill Ford is going to
ask this, Jan Carlos Toro is going to
ask this. And also predict their vote.
By the end of a year of doing this, I
had I was up to 80 90%. And what was
really interesting, it was forced me not
only to have my own opinion about a deal
because I would read the materials, but
look at it from the perspective of
someone who's really good at making
these kind of decisions. And my ambition
was to one day be completely
unpredictable when someone tried to do
this with me in when I became a senior
person because I was capturing learnings
from 30 perspective. It's not true. I'm
I'm actually pretty predictable by now.
But uh it's it's it's learning
vicariously by forcing yourself to have
opinions and also putting yourselves in
the minds of people who are proven
investors is a way of the apprenticeship
on steroids. And one of the things that
that we do at GA, which I'm really proud
of because it was culturally very hard
to do, our investment committees are
open to everyone.
>> The whole firm,
>> the whole firm, investment
professionals. So every Tuesday 190
people sign up and there's no
presenting.
>> We we come in directly to Shark Tag just
questions
>> and it's beautiful.
>> So So talk me through how that meeting
works. So one person like a sponsor is
proposing a deal.
>> So there's a deal team. The deal team is
typically a combination of a sector and
a geo put together. There's standardized
materials with the checklist. Uh it gets
distributed by Friday we yeah Tuesday we
come in. There's no presenting the deal
lead. is always a deal lead. The main
sponsor is there to answer questions
>> and we have five investment committee
members and the IC robot which also
opines and we just ask you questions.
>> What's the IC robot?
>> We so we've we've been training this
sixth member of the IC based on 45 years
of data.
So she votes on all our deals and and
we've we've been having her do this for
the last three years and we called her
>> is she any good?
>> So we've back tested her. Yeah.
>> And she's much better than humans.
>> But it turns out someone who's been
trained in the past is very good at the
past.
>> Yeah.
>> We only have three years of concurrent.
So we need to wait another four or five
years. I'm hoping that by the time we
retire, I retire about 10 years, she'll
be better than
>> if I was doing that, if I could somehow
do that exercise with you where I I
could predict the sorts of questions
that you tend to ask about companies,
what what are they like? What are the
big ones that you find yourself
constantly asking sponsors who are are
promoting a deal?
>> Yeah. Uh
getting in the mind of the founder,
>> his his or her motivations, why this is
so special and the trajectory that got
to this. I try to meet the founders
outside the investor community process
as a sponsor basis of competition sort
of true distinct
uh competitive advantage and durability
of o of the competitive uh advantage.
And then I I think and then I try to
push people on the tales
uh both positive and negative like like
if these six bad things happen what's
how bad is it and how likely is it or if
this amazing development happens which
could be amazing how how unlikely is and
who else would benefit from so I I
always find the tales to be the most
interesting because if you look at the
distribution of our returns 10% of our
best deals and we get lucky and they
produce 50% return. So we lose money
very little and then 10% we get 5x plus
and these are really important and these
all of them are better than the upside
case in our memos
>> because good things happen that we did
not see coming but God bless and thank
God. So I always find like we where are
the lottery tickets?
>> How do you assess h it seems like first
of all incredibly important like all the
data we know how important the right
tail is for investing outcomes. Uh it's
like, you know, well well wororn truth
at this point. How how do you how does
one get better at assessing the option
value embedded in a given business? Like
that that just seems so crucial, but
I've never there's no book about that.
There's no podcast about that. You've
got 10 investments. How do you know
which of the 10 has more embedded like
right? So the
pattern recognition from having seen
winning lottery tickets gives you some
help, right? If you've seen more of
these, you begin to see where you get
how how you can get lucky. Uh as
important
in all those lucky scenarios,
there was a spear fisherman at the top
to capture an opportunity that was
available to many, but they seized it.
So it's a lot more about
>> the capital allocator at the top
>> the the CEO is he someone that can spear
fish
>> and some people you it takes one to no
one some people are really good at it
some people are not spear fisherman
>> what is your unfinished business
professionally
>> so listen I I I could not think of a
better
activity than working in growth equity
at general athletic for the next 10
global growth equity in the middle of
the AI revolution with the seniority
that I have and the dry powder
>> pinch me pinch me because I hope I don't
die on a plane crash because it's going
to be great. Uh so now after that and I
think you have to start thinking I've
been active mentoring entrepreneurs
through Endeavor which is a
nonforprofit. I'm in the board and I've
been doing this for 25 years. I actually
started mentoring which is an
interesting tidbit when my business was
running out of cash
and after com sounds exciting but there
was a death you know the dark valley of
death and Linda Rottenberg the founder
of endeavor she's like it is precisely
at your darkest moment that you mentor
because it's a sign of you have
something to give
>> in the darkest moment of the night which
is interesting the whole AA like I have
friends who are in AA the body system is
so valuable because even at your darkest
moment you have enough light to help
someone and that gives you the strength
to make it through. So I huge believer
in mentoring that's something I will do
for the rest of my life. And then I uh
the unfinished business I think uh as I
get older I I want to help in this
higher education in the US. I think
we've lost our way. And I saw the impact
scholarship to Harvard did to a young
kid from Bolivia and I I love that
institution. I I love education and I
think it's in a moment that it's uh lost
his way and and we can find it back. C
>> can you teach me mentoring? How how does
one mentor? Well,
>> my my strategy there's many ways to do
it. um I don't have time to be someone's
mentor for six years or to see them
maybe as part of endeavor I'll see them
twice. So I have to hurt them
for the mentoring to be impactful I have
to make it so obvious that it's so
stupid they haven't yet focused on this
that they're like show him and then they
act on it. Uh so uh my mentoring
sessions are very uncomfortable. I mean
I do it I do it in with a smile on my
face of
>> course but it works. It it it's like
crash therapy like three years of
therapy in one hour. You got you no time
for both. We're going directly for the
for the sensitive points. And I learned
to do it in a way that's not damaging or
disrespectful in any way. But it is
very scathing and saying you can't this
is clearly an opportunity. Come on wake
up. smelled the coffee and sure enough
now I have a couple of billionaire
friends who are like you really hurt me
but thank you
>> and and I'm so I'm always curious about
like literal process like if you're
meeting someone for the first time it is
the format you ask them a bunch of
questions and then you quickly do the
you know the aggressive like why aren't
you doing this thing
>> so I I'm married to a shrink
psychoanalyst so as a condition to our
marriage I have to do psycho analysis
and and it's a wonderful thing I wrote
it's one of the three things I wrote
therapy and meditation and
um one one of my favorite he's now
diseased but he was a philosopher writer
an incredible Italian Brazilian guy very
famous in Brazil and uh you would go to
this one hour weekly session and he
would look at you in silence and if
didn't say anything after a while you
just say in town and town is translating
so
I let you take it the most powerful way
to Start a conversation with someone
you're trying to get to know. Silence.
You tell me.
>> What do you want to talk about?
>> What do you want to talk?
>> Simple.
>> Simple. I'll give you another one. I
asked, what's the most important
question you need the answer to from the
universe?
The answer to that question is so
powerful because vocalizing that which
you most want the answer to is
liberating.
My traditional closing question for
everyone is the same. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you?
>> Daniela,
taught me how to love.
As I, as we established, my heart's not
very developed and my gut and my brain
are very developed. And uh she's such a
loving, wonderful woman.
and uh she's being loved by her and
learning from her how to love back and
then learning from her how to love our
daughters and the way that they need to
be loved.
And she's so smart and loving me can
sometimes be very hard.
>> A beautiful place to close and thank you
for the reminder to laugh a lot in these
conversations. Thanks for your time.
>> Thank you for having